After my grandfather passed away in 2006, my grandmother — who had very little computer knowledge — needed to learn for the first time how to send email, browse the Web and save photos that friends and relatives sent her way.
As the "tech guy" in the family, she naturally leaned on me for support. But she taught me something important, too, as I helped her find her way. Her experiences in trying to master Windows XP and a DSL modem and a finicky inkjet printer helped me understand that the best coaching comes not just in answering the present question, but in framing it such that it also covers the next, unasked, question.
Veteran tech experts know that some computer users find it difficult to clearly express what they're trying to figure out. The difference between answering a question and solving a problem lies in applying subject-matter expertise to translate a specific query into a viable solution set, and then sharing that solution set in an accessible way that fully addresses the questions the user didn't realize he had.
In other words, experts apply their smarts to infer a question's context, then supply the guidance to proactively answer other questions within that context. A true expert is a mentor first and an answer desk second.
The best way to be successful in the DMS Technology section — any section, really — is delightfully straightforward. Write what you know; steer within your wheelhouse by only covering subjects where your expertise is deep enough to bring real value to others. Keep your prose tight and accessible. Get it right, by anticipating the next potential barrier and by empowering the reader with the knowledge to solve the problem, not just to answer the question.
It's hard, sometimes, to go the extra mile on subjects that we experts think are so simply they defy richer context. But you know what? Sometimes, Granny's on the other end of that article, and she's counting on you to help her figure out something that seems simple to an expert, but might be vexing for a novice.
But experienced readers sometimes turn to us too, looking for pro tips or quick answers to obscure questions. The best Tech writers know how to parse a subject to target their content to the most likely reader. Need to learn how to set a passcode on an iPhone? We'll give you very detailed guidance. Can't remember how to write CASE statements in Oracle SQL? We'll give you the core of what you need, so you can bypass byzantine product documentation.
To succeed as a Tech writer, my advice is simple. Write what you know. Get it right. Keep it tight. Write for your readers.

